packages/components/README.md, before:

# Components

A library of React components designed for use in Automattic products.

## Installation

Install the components and the color schemes they depend on.

```bash
yarn add @automattic/components @automattic/calypso-color-schemes
```

## Usage

```jsx
// import the color variables - you only need to do this once in your entire application
import '@automattic/calypso-color-schemes';

// import the component you wish to use
import { Button } from '@automattic/components';

const CallToAction = () => (
	<>
		<Button primary onClick={ () => alert( 'Thank you for taking action!' ) }>
			Take action now!
		</Button>
	</>
);
```

## Development Workflow

This package is developed as part of the Calypso monorepo. Run `yarn`
in the root of the repository to get the required `devDependencies`.

### Tests

`yarn run test-packages`

`yarn run test-packages:watch`

### Using [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)

To see stories within this package, run `yarn workspace @automattic/components run storybook`.

Commit message:

Storybook: Add required styles for `@automattic/components` (#98289)
* Storybook: Add required styles for `@automattic/components`

* Update readme

packages/components/README.md, after:

# Components

A library of React components designed for use in Automattic products.

## Installation

Install the components and the color schemes they depend on.

```bash
yarn add @automattic/components @automattic/calypso-color-schemes
```

## Usage

```jsx
// import the color variables - you only need to do this once in your entire application
import '@automattic/calypso-color-schemes';

// import the component you wish to use
import { Button } from '@automattic/components';

const CallToAction = () => (
	<>
		<Button primary onClick={ () => alert( 'Thank you for taking action!' ) }>
			Take action now!
		</Button>
	</>
);
```

Some components require CSS styles from `@wordpress/components`, which you will need to load in order for them to appear correctly. Within WordPress, add the `wp-components` stylesheet as a dependency of your plugin's stylesheet. See [wp_enqueue_style documentation](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/wp_enqueue_style/#parameters) for how to specify dependencies.

In non-WordPress projects, import the `build-style/style.css` file directly, located at `node_modules/@wordpress/components/build-style/style.css`.

## Development Workflow

This package is developed as part of the Calypso monorepo. Run `yarn`
in the root of the repository to get the required `devDependencies`.

### Tests

`yarn run test-packages`

`yarn run test-packages:watch`

### Using [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)

To see stories within this package, run `yarn workspace @automattic/components run storybook`.
